# Orks-2016-7th-Edition-Update
General justifications: Orks are built around strength in numbers, brute force, unpredictability, & the mysterious nature of their advanced yet ramshackle technology (teleportation & force fields). They play by some element of randomness in exchange for low prices & reduced efficacy of individual units or models, having their strength bolstered to evenness by weight of numbers both in shooting & melee (though they shine in the latter more than the former). They function on a high-risk, high-reward model: being charged by Orks is devastating, while being charged AS Orks ought to be equally so. Space Marines, by contrast, represent the most standard model of gameplay: medium-low risk, medium reward. An SM player can count on consistent results leaning toward success based on the low cost & availability of myriad types of specialist wargear, as well as standard BS & saves. Coupled with extremely favorable Formations, this contributes to a strong performance from SMs on all fronts; hence, their point costs & performance vectors are what the designers considered when balancing units, stats, & gear. Conversely, Orks can pay a premium for strong individual HQs to "buy" more consistently effective performance as they spread beneficial special rules around the army; that these high-cost characters ought to compete with similarly-costed characters in other armies is obvious on its face. In short, Orks ought to perform as well for the points, if funnier, given the Boyz' cavalier attitude toward life & death. The Ork stat line is based on their 3rd edition codex, which assumed cosimultaneous melee engagements with average enemies (at Initiative 4) due to Power of the Waaagh!. Absent these & other rules & gear that were designed in conjunction with & intended to bolster lackluster stats, the Boyz have fallen far behind in fun & function. Given how crucial initiative has become in 40k with the proliferation of AP2 weaponry, this re-write seeks to return Orks to a genuine threat to the galaxy & the tabletop without undercosting or overpowering them. Its purpose is to do so in a fashion in accordance with the fiction & fluff, & with great love for the faction [that was clearly absent in the "7th" Ed. copy-pasted waste & subsequent insult that was the useless Ghazgkhull decurion supplement]. Included with these rules changes are a new Decurion & formations for it that draw from Ork "kultur," such as klanz, in order to allow the player to design your Waaagh!, your way. We hope you will find these rules contribute strongly to an enjoyable and fair gaming experience.
